---
title: "Keebble: Knickknack"
date: 2023-03-07
type: "rules"
pdf: false
---

{{% rules-block id="setup" heading="Setup" icon="setup" icontint="green" %}}

{{< rules-image src="starting_setup.webp" alt="Example starting setup (generated by website)." class="float-right drop-shadow" >}}

Grab a paper. Fold it in half six times: you should have 64 "cells" now.

You can start with an empty page. Or let [the website](../#board) generate a starting board and copy it to your paper.

Each player grabs a pen and invents **some simple icon** they'll use throughout the game. (Square, circle, ...)

Grab a device and start [the game](../#game).

{{% remark class="left" %}}
Decide on two things before the game starts. 

**Direction of play**: how words are oriented and read. 

**Dictionary**: what source decides if a word is valid.
{{% /remark %}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="objective" heading="Objective" icon="objective" icontint="lightblue" %}}

The game ends when the interface says so. (It gives a warning beforehand.) The player with the most points wins.

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="action_play" heading="On your turn" icon="action" icontint="pink" %}}

The device shows a list of options. On your turn, **pick any option**!

Tap it. Execute the option. If you created new words, [**score them**](#action_scoring).

When only _one option_ is left, the current round ends. The interface automatically starts the next one.

{{< rules-example id="turn" >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="action_scoring" heading="Scoring" icon="scoring" icontint="yellow" class="force-page-break-before" %}}

{{< rules-double-view src="scoring.webp" alt="Examples of scoring your word(s)." >}}

If you've created **new and valid** words, score them at the end of your turn. 

For each new word ...

* Sum the value of each letter.
* Every letter that belongs to another player, however, also scores points for _them_.

To update score, open that window in the interface. Tap a name to add +1 score.

If your combined score at the end of a turn is _negative_, don't do anything. (This can happen with expansions, both for you and others profiting from your word.)

{{< /rules-double-view >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="options" heading="Options" icon="options" icontint="orange" %}}

{{% rules-block id="letter" heading="Letter" icon="option-letter" %}}

You get the letters shown.

* Write each letter in any empty cell. 
* Draw your personal icon at the **top left** to mark it as yours.
* Write the letter score at the **bottom right**.

That’s all! It's **not required** for letters to be connected, or form valid words, or anything.

{{< rules-image src="word_placement.webp" alt="Example of Letter Option ( = placing new letters)." >}}

Two special letters exist.

* **Question mark** ("?"). This is a wildcard: it can be any letter you want!
* **Exclamation mark** ("!"). For each of these, you must _overwrite_ an existing letter of yours (instead of placing the new letter in an empty cell).

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="wall" heading="Wall" icon="option-wall" %}}
Place a wall on any empty edge on the board. A wall means the two cells aren’t considered “adjacent” anymore. (Which allows for creating more words, or breaking up bad patches of letters.)

{{< rules-image src="wall_placement.webp" alt="Example of placing/using a wall." >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="start_player" heading="Start Player" icon="option-start" %}}
The next round starts with you! (The interface remembers this and will show the correct player name.)
{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="raw_points" heading="Points" icon="option-points_standalone" %}}
You simply get the points indicated. (The interface does this automatically for you!)
{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% /rules-block %}}


{{% rules-block id="expansions" heading="Expansions" class="force-page-break-before" icon="expansion" icontint="blue" %}}

{{% rules-block id="expansion-special" heading="Supercells" icon="option-cell" %}}

Now cells can be a special type! 

The option "special cell" can appear. When picked, draw the cell type in the **top right** of a cell (that has no type yet). Whenever this cell is used during scoring, apply the special effect.

{{< rules-image src="special_cell_placement.webp" alt="Example of Cell Option ( = turn a cell into a special one)." >}}

Below are all possible types.

{{< rules-table >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Double Letter" icon="double-letter" >}}
        Doubles the value of the letter inside.
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Triple Letter" icon="triple-letter" >}}
        Triples the value of the letter inside.
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Double Word" icon="double-word" >}}
        Doubles the value of the word that used it.
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Triple Word" icon="triple-word" >}}
        Triples the value of the word that used it.
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
{{< /rules-table >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="expansion-powerups" heading="Poignant Powerups" %}}

Adds powerup-type options. These apply a **permanent change** to the rules or scoring. The powerup icon is displayed on the interface to remind you. 

At most four powerups can exist at the same time. If a fifth one is added, the oldest powerup is removed.

{{% remark %}}
Choosing a powerup always gives you 2 points. This happens automatically.
{{% /remark %}}

{{< rules-table >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Letter Change" icon="po_letter" iconprefix="option" >}}
        The value of a specific letter is changed (by the amount shown).
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Word Change" icon="po_word" iconprefix="option" >}}
        The score for each new word is changed (by the amount shown)
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Straight" icon="po_straight" iconprefix="option" >}}
        If you place new letters, they must all be in the same row or column
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Connect" icon="po_connect" iconprefix="option" >}}
        If you place new letters, they must all connect to existing letters
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Clear" icon="po_clear" iconprefix="option" >}}
        Removes all active powerups!
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
{{< /rules-table >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="expansion-options" heading="Ominous Options" icon="" %}}

Adds more advanced options that can appear in the interface.

{{< rules-table class="single-line" >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Swap" icon="swap" iconprefix="option" >}}
        Change one letter on the board into any other one. (Cross out the original, write the new one in the cell.)
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
<!-- -->
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Destroy" icon="destroy" iconprefix="option" >}}
        Pick a cell and cross out one part of it: <strong>owner, type, score or content</strong>. If you destroy the <em>content</em> (even in an empty cell), it can't be used anymore.
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
{{< /rules-table >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block id="expansion-backpack" heading="Beefy Backpacks" icon="option-empty_backpack" %}}

Whenever you pick a letter option, you can choose to **save them for later**, instead of placing them immediately.

How? Open that backpack interface (tap its icon) and tap your name. It knows the option you just picked, so it automatically saves those letters for you!

A new option can appear: empty backpack.

{{< rules-table class="single-element" >}}
    {{< rules-table-entry heading="Empty Backpack" icon="empty_backpack" iconprefix="option" >}}
        When chosen, place all letters inside your backpack on the board at once. The interface empties it for you.
    {{< /rules-table-entry >}}
{{< /rules-table >}}

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% /rules-block %}}