---
type: "rules"
---

{{% rules-block heading="Setup" icon="setup" %}}

Create a deck of **Contract Cards**. Place 5 of them faceup on the table.

Deal all players a deck of **6 Dice Cards**, numbered 1--6. (Higher and lower numbers are in the deck too, but not dealt at the start.)

@TODO: EXAMPLE IMAGE

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block heading="Objective" icon="objective" %}}

The game **ends** when a player has scored **10(+) contracts**. They win.

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block heading="Gameplay" icon="action" %}}

On your turn, pick one [Contract](#contracts) from the center of the table. (Then refill to 5 from deck.)

Every contract poses a challenge. You may decide to go it alone ... but you'll usually want other players to help. You can ask as many (or as few) as you like, but it's up to them if they accept or not.

The players who enter the contract are called **Souls**. The _number_ of them is called the **Turnout**.

Then, execute the challenge, doing as it says. 

Some cards have special powers: check them after revealing them through a roll. These powers **always apply to another Soul**. If you try a challenge on your own, they do not trigger at all.

If you pass the challenge on the contract, you get the reward listed. Otherwise you get the penalty.

Crucially, the **reward or penalty is always multiplied by the Turnout**. For example, a reward of "+1 hand card" turns into "+3 hand cards" if the Turout was 3.

You decide **how to distribute** the reward/penalty over all Souls. You can be selfish ... but it might come back to bite you later.

That's it!

@TODO: EXAMPLE IMAGE

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block heading="Contracts" %}}

@TODO: EXAMPLE IMAGE (with card skeleton)

The challenge of a contract is written in the center.

* Its reward is within the green zone at the top.
* Its penalty is within the red zone at the bottom.

The challenges are partially randomly generated by my website, which is why there's no full list detailing all of them.

Below is an explanation of all icons.

@TODO: Rules-table with icon + desc

The "score" icon is the most important one here. 

* If you score a card, it means grabbing a Contract card and placing it facedown in your score pile. The first card scored is always the contract you just played; any other contracts for scoring are simply drawn from the deck.
* Similarly, if you _unscore_ a card, it means removing a random Contract card from your score pile and shuffling it back into the deck.

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block heading="Variants & Expansions" icon="expansion" %}}

Played the base game and ready for more? Or looking to tweak the game to fit your playing group better? Check out these variants and expansions!

{{% rules-block heading="Variants" %}}

To make the game **easier**, only select the 1-star and maybe 2-star contracts.

To make the game more **cooperative**, you must always try a challenge with at least 2 players. (The first player you pick is forced to cooperate with you.) However, a forced player does _not_ get a penalty if it goes wrong.

To make the game more **chaotic**, start every player with 6 random cards (instead of neatly ordered numbers).

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block heading="Expansion: Lost Souls" %}}

This expansion adds a few contracts that play with our Souls.

* **BATTLE:** This contract is a challenge _against_ each other. You select another player, who can't refuse, and you _both_ try to pass the challenge. The one who scores best, gets the reward. The other gets the penalty.
* **FORCED:** This contract has a _minimum Turnout_. Until you've reached that number, you force other players to join in. (You can exceed it, but then it's voluntary again.)

@TODO: EXAMPLE IMAGE

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% rules-block heading="Expansion: Devilish Numbers" %}}

This expansion adds a few new number cards.

* **Wildcard**: is any number you want, at any time.
* **Duo**: has two numbers. Pick the one you want after revealing it. (Once chosen, it can't change anymore)
* **Negative**: simply negative numbers. (The number 0 is already in the base game, in limited amounts.)

It also adds more special powers

* "Another Soul _must_ reroll once."
* "Another Soul _may_ reroll once."
* "If the Turnout is equal to all players, this card is any number between 1 and 10."
* "Remove/Add 1 card to the die of another Soul who hasn't rolled yet."
* "For every Soul, add 1 to every value rolled."
* "For every Soul, subtract 1 from every value rolled."
* "Ignore 1 icon from both reward and penalty of this contract." => and the split up version (only ignore from reward OR only from penalty)
* "Instantly pass the contract, but the reward isn't scaled with Turnout."
* "Instantly fail the contract, but take no penalty."
* "Other souls are allowed to reroll their result, but at most 2 times (in total)."
* "If another Soul rolls a 1 (or lower), the contract instantly fails."
* "If another Soul rolls a 6 (or higher), the contract instantly succeeds."
* "If multiple Souls roll the same number, switch the contract for a different one."
* "Double one number already rolled."
* "Remove one number already rolled (turning it to 0)."
* "Swap 1 card from your dice with another Soul."
* "Draw the top card from the deck and pretend you rolled that. Keep it afterward."
* "If anybody rolls the same number as this, discard this card. (Its roll value is 0 now.)"
* "The other Souls are allowed to use only a _part_ of their die, but at least 2 cards."

@TODO: Decide which of the special powers go to the BASE GAME.

@IDEA: Often times, the target to reach _scales_ with players too. 
* "All Souls roll twice. At least half your rolls must be 4 or higher."
* "All Souls roll. Pick the highest number. It must be higher than the Turnout + 1." =>
* "All Souls roll a die of just 4 cards. The sum of outcomes must be higher than 3 x Turnout."


@TODO: EXAMPLE IMAGE

{{% /rules-block %}}

{{% /rules-block %}}



